#summary The packages of the Seaside project follow a generic pattern.

=Grammar=

Below a rough [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extended_Backus–Naur_Form EBNF grammar] of how Seaside and Monticello expect packages and versions to be named (no spaces allowed anywhere):

{{{
Package     = PackageName VersionInfo
PackageName = Name "-" [ Purpose "-" ] [ Platform "-" ] Rest
VersionInfo = "-" Author [ "." Branch ] "." Version
}}}

=Package Name=

|| *Token* || *Required* || *Explanation* || *Examples* ||
|| Name || mandatory || The top level package name || `Seaside`, `Scriptaculous`, ... ||
|| Purpose || optional || Present for tests or examples only || `Tests`, `Examples`, ... ||
|| Platform || optional || Present for platform specific code only || `Squeak`, `GemStone`, ... ||
|| Rest || mandatory || The second level package name (avoid $- in the name) || `Core`, `Canvas`, ...  ||

===Examples===

The package ...

  * `Seaside-Canvas` contains he canvas implementation.
  * `Seaside-Squeak-Canvas` contains the platform specific code of the canvas implementation.
  * `Seaside-Examples-Canvas` contains example code showing off the canvas implementation.
  * `Seaside-Tests-Canvas` contains the tests for the canvas implementation.
  * `Seaside-Tests-Squeak-Canvas` contains the platform specific tests of the canvas implementation.

=Version Info=

|| *Token* || *Required* || *Explanation* || *Examples* ||
|| Author || mandatory || The author initials, short sequence of lowercase letters || `lr`, `jf`, `pmm`, ... ||
|| Branch || optional || The branch name starts with a lowercase letter || `issue123`, `configcleanup`, ... ||
|| Version || mandatory || The version numbers, starting at 1 sequentially counting upwards || `1`, `2`, `3`, ... ||

===Examples===

The versions ...

  * `Seaside-Core-pmm.2` is the second version of the package `Seaside-Core` committed by pmm.
  * `Seaside-Core-jf.configcleanup.3` is the third version of the package `Seaside-Core` committed by jf into the configcleanup branch.
  * `Seaside-Core-lr.configcleanup.extraspeedup.69` is the version 69 of the package `Seaside-Core` committed by lr, and is possibly a merge of the branches configcleanup and extraspeedup.