#summary Add-on libraries which build on Seaside
= Seaside add-on libraries =

Some useful add-on libraries:
  * [http://www.squeaksource.com/JQueryWidgetBox/ JQWidgetBox] JQuery Widgets with Seaside integration
  * [SeasideRest Seaside-REST] RESTful applications with Seaside; included with Seaside 3.1.
  * [http://www.squeaksource.com/ajp AJP] connector for Seaside. Efficient communications between front end servers (Apache, Nginx) to backend Seaside instances.
  * [http://www.seaside.st/documentation/persistence Persisting] data
  * [Gettext] How to localize Seaside applications using gettext.
  * [http://www.seaside.st/documentation/pdfs pdf] generation.
  * [https://github.com/svenvc/ston STON] - Smalltalk Object Notation - JSON for Smalltalk. 
  * [http://blog.doit.st/2011/02/15/cloudforksso-openid-and-oauth-support-for-smalltalk/ OAuth] support - [http://blog.doit.st/2011/02/15/cloudforksso-openid-and-oauth-support-for-smalltalk/ documentation] and [http://www.squeaksource.com/Cloudfork/  repository].
  * [http://blog.doit.st  Amazon Web Service] (AWS) support includes: SimpleDB persistency service, SQS queing service and S3 storage service. Work on EC2, RDS and SNS support is in progress.  
  * [http://source.lukas-renggli.ch/magritte3/ Magritte 3] a meta-description frame work for annotating your model objects to automate generation of form, table report UIs etc
  * [http://source.lukas-renggli.ch/magritte3addons/ Magritte-JSON] and [http://source.lukas-renggli.ch/magritte3addons/ Magritte-XML], read and store your Magritte described models in JSON and XML
 * [http://source.lukas-renggli.ch/pier3/ Pier 3] Version 3 of the powerful object-based content management system.
 * [http://source.lukas-renggli.ch/pier3addons/ Pier 3 addons] including Wysiwyg editing, Pier Admin - separate administration interface, Pier Admin setup - generate Pier sites from a set of templates
 * [http://jquerymobile.seasidehosting.st/ JQueryMobile] Seaside integration - build mobile sites and applications that work across a range of smartphones with Seaside.
 * [http://twitterbootstrap.seasidehosting.st Twitter bootstrap] Seaside and Magritte integration. A modern CSS, javascript library integrated with Seaside.
 * [http://seafox.seasidehosting.st Seafox] translate HTML into Seaside canvas methods, including a Firefox add-on.
 * [http://ss3.gemstone.com/ss/TopFeeder TopFeeder] rss reader library.

add your favourite library here...